[Music]
what I do is I organize information I'm
a graphic designer
professionally I try to make sense often
of things that don't make much sense
themselves so my father might not
understand what it is that I do for a
living his part of my ancestry has been
farmers his part of this ethnic minority
called the Pontic Greeks they lived in
Asia Minor and fled to Greece after
genocide about a hundred years ago and
ever since that migration has somewhat
been a theme in my family my father
moved to Germany studied there and
married and as a result I now have this
half German brain with all the
analytical thinking and that slight
dorky demeanor that come with that and
of course it meant that I was a
foreigner in both countries and that of
course made it pretty easy for me to
migrate as well and good family
tradition if you like but of course most
journeys that we undertake from day to
day are within a city and especially if
you know the city getting from A to B
may seem pretty obvious right but the
question is why is it obvious how do we
know where we're going so I washed up on
a Dublin ferry port about 12 years ago a
professional foreigner if you like and
I'm sure you've all had this experience
before yeah
you have I arrived in a new city and
your brain is trying to make sense of
this new place once you find your base
your home you start to build this
cognitive map of your environment it's
essentially this virtual map that only
exists in your brain all animal species
do it even though we all use slightly
different tools those humans of course
we don't move around marking our
territory by sense like dogs we don't
run around emitting ultrasonic squeaks
like bats we just don't do that although
a night in the temp of our district can
get pretty well
now we do two important things to make a
place our own first we move along linear
routes typically we find a main street
and this Main Street becomes a linear
strip map in our minds but our mind
keeps it pretty simple yeah every street
is generally perceived as a straight
line and we kind of ignore the little
twists and turns that the streets make
when we do however make a turn into a
side street our mind tends to adjust
that turn to a 90-degree angle this of
course makes for some funny moments when
you're in some old city layouts that for
that follows some sort of circular city
logic yeah maybe you've had that
experience as well right let's say you
are on some spot on a side street that
projects from a main Cathedral Square
and you want to get to another point on
a side street just like that the
cognitive map in your mind may tell you
eros go back to the main cathedral
square take a 90-degree turn and walk
down that other side street but somehow
you feel adventurous that day and to
suddenly discover that the two spots
were actually only a single building
apart now I don't know about you but I
always feel like I find this wormhole or
or this interdimensional portal so we
move along linear routes and our mind
straightened streets and perceives turns
as 90-degree angles the second thing
that we do to make a place our own is we
attach meaning and emotions to the
things that we see along those along
those lines if you go to the Irish
countryside and you ask an old lady for
directions brace yourself for some
elaborate Irish storytelling about all
the landmarks yeah she'll tell you the
pub where her sister used to work and go
past that church where I got married
that kind of thing so we fill our
cognitive maps with these markers of
meaning what's more we the abstract
repeat patterns and recognize them we
recognize them by the experiences and we
abstract them into symbols and of course
we're all capable of understanding these
symbols what's more we are all capable
of understanding the cognitive maps and
you are all capable of creating these
cognitive Maps yourselves so next time
when you want to tell your friend how to
get to your place you grab a beer mat
grab a napkin and you just observe
yourself create this awesome piece of
communication design it's got straight
lines
it's got 90 degree corners you might add
with the symbols along the way and when
you look at what you've just drawn you
realize it does not resemble a street
map if you were to put an actual street
map on top of what you've just drawn
you'd realize your streets and the
distances they'd be way off know what
you've just drawn is more like a dry
gram or a schematic it's a visual
construct of lines dots letters design
in the language of our brains so it's no
big surprise that the big information
design icon of the last century the
pinnacle of showing everybody how to get
from A to B the London Underground map
was not designed by a cartographer or a
city planner it was designed by an
engineering draftsmen in the 1930s Harry
Beck applied the principles of schematic
diagram design and changed the way
public transport maps are designed
forever now the very key to the success
of this map is in the omission of
important less important information and
in the extreme simplification so
straighten streets corners of 90 and 45
degrees but also the extreme Geographic
distortion in that map if you were to
look at the actual locations of these
stations you'd see they're very
different yeah but this is all for the
clarity
of the public cubemap yeah if you say
wanted to get from regents park station
to Great Portland Street the Tube map
would tell you take the tube go to Baker
Street
change over take another tube of course
what you don't know is that the two
stations are only about 100 meters apart
now we've reached the subject of public
transport and public transport here in
Dublin is this somewhat touchy subject
for everybody who does not know the
public transport here in Dublin
essentially we have the system of local
buses that grew with the city for every
outskirt that was added
there was another bus route added
running from the outskirt all the way to
the city centre and as these local buses
approached the city centre
they all run side by side and converge
in pretty much one Main Street so when I
stopped stepped off the boat 12 years
ago I tried to make sense of that
because exploring a city on foot only
gets you so far but when you explore a
foreign and new public transport system
you will build a cognitive map in your
mind in pretty much the same way
typically you choose yourself a rapid
transport route and in your mind this
route is perceived as a straight line
and like a pearl necklace all the
stations and stops and are nicely and
neatly aligned along the along the line
and only then you start to discover some
local bus routes that would fill in the
gaps and that allow you for those
wormhole interdimensional portal
shortcuts so I try to make sense and
when I arrived I was looking for some
information leaflets that would help me
crack this system and understand it and
I found those brochures
they were not geographically distorted
they were having a lot of omission of
information but unfortunately the wrong
information stay in the city center
there were never actually any lines that
showed the routes there are actually not
even any stations with names now the
lines the the maps of Dublin transport
have gotten better and after I finished
the project they got a good a good bit
better but still no station names still
no routes so being naive and being half
German I decided Aris why don't you
build your own map so that's what I did
I researched how each and every bus
route moved through the city
nice and logical every bus route a
separate line and I plotted it into my
own map of Dublin and in the city centre
I got a nice spaghetti place
now this is a bit of a mess so I I
decided of course you're going to apply
the rules of schematic design clearing
up the corridors widening the streets
where there were loads of buses and
making the streets at straight 90-degree
corners 45-degree corners of fractions
of that and filled it in with the bus
routes and I built a city center bus map
of the system how it was five years ago
zoom in again so that you get the full
impact of the keys and the Westmoreland
Street now I can proudly say I can
proudly say as a public transport map
this diagram is an order failure
except probably in one aspect I now had
a great visual representation of just
how clogged up and overrun the city
center really was now call me
old-fashioned right but I think a public
transport route map should have lines
because that's what they are yeah there
are little pieces of string that wrap
their way through the city center or
through the city if you will the Greek
guy inside of me feels if I don't get a
line it's like entering the labyrinth of
the Minotaur without having Ariadne
giving you the string to find your way
so the outcome of my academic research
loads of questionnaires case studies and
looking at a lot of maps was that a lot
of the problems and shortcomings of the
public transport system here in Dublin
was the lack of a coherent public
transport map a simplified coherent
public transport map because I think
this is the crucial step to
understanding public transport network
on a physical level but it's also the
crucial step to make a public transport
network mapable on a visual level so I
teamed up with a gentleman called James
Lee he a civil engineer and recent
masters graduates of sustainable
development program at di T and together
we drafted the simplified model network
which I could then go ahead and
visualize so here's what we did we
distributed these rapid transport
corridors throughout the city center and
extended them into the outskirts rapid
because we wanted them to be served by
rapid transport vehicles yeah they would
get exclusive road news were possible
and it would be high quantity high
quality transport James wanted to use
bus rapid transport for that rather than
light rail for me it was important that
the vehicles that would run on those bus
those rapid transport corridors would be
visibly distinguishable from local buses
on the street now we could take out all
the local buses that ran alongside those
rapid trans
or means any gaps that appeared in the
outskirts were filled again so in other
words if there was a street in an
outskirt where there had been a bus we
put a bus back in only now these buses
wouldn't run all the way to the city
center but connect to the nearest rapid
transport mode one of these thick lines
over there
so the rest was merely a couple of
months of work and a couple of fights
with my girlfriends of our place
constantly being clogged up with maps
and the outcome one of the outcomes was
this map of the Greater Dublin area has
oom in a little bit
this map only shows the rapid transport
connections no local bus very much in
the metros mapped style that was so
successful in London and that since has
been exported to so many other major
cities and therefore is the language
that we should use for public transport
maps what's also important is with a
simplified network like this it now
would become possible for me to tackle
the ultimate challenge and make a public
transport map for the city centre one
where I wouldn't just show rapid
transport connections but also all the
local bus routes streets and the likes
and this is what a map like this could
look like I'll zoom in a little bit in
this map I'm including each transport
mode so rapid transport both dart tram
and the lights each each individual
route is represent represented by a
separate line the map shows each and
every station each and every station
name and I'm also display displaying
side streets in fact most of the side
streets even with their name and for
good measure also a couple of landmarks
some of them signified by little symbols
others by these isometric
three-dimensional bird's-eye view
drawings the map is
relatively small and overall size so
something that you could still hold as a
fold-out map or display in a reasonably
sized display box on a bus shelter I
think it tries to be the the best
balance between actual representation
and simplification the language of
wayfinding in our brain so straightened
lines cleaned up corners and of course
that very very important Geographic
distortion that makes public transport
Maps possible if you for example have a
look at the two main corridors that run
through the city the yellow and orange
one over here this is how they looked in
a in an actual accurate Street map and
this is how they would look in my
distorted simplified public transport
map so for successful public transport
map we should not stick to accurate
representation but design them in the
way our brains work the reactions I got
were tremendous it was really good to
see and of course for my own self I was
very happy to see that my folks in
Germany in Greece finally have an idea
what I do for a living